[MUSIC]
Hi again, we need a way to lose, so
when our attacker reaches the end,
pup, we wanna trigger
our game over screen.
Also, to give us a mechanism
to have not just one life, but
to have many lives in our game, so
all right let's jump in and set that up.
Let's start by having
a look at our prefabs, and
make sure that we have everything
prefabbed that we need prefabbed.
So I'm gonna open up my core games
folder and just drag in core game area,
which was our hit boxy thing.
That allows us to click down,
drag in buttons as well,
now that that's feeling pretty good,
that might change.
Some levels we might have more buttons or
less buttons, so for
now I'll put all the buttons in there,
I think that's okay.
Spawners, we've talked about that,
we aren't going to prefab our
high level cuz I'm using 2018.2.
This is the last version on Unity
where we don't have nested prefabs.
If you're using a later version, then you
could prefab the Spawners as a grouping,
as a collective then also prefab
the individual Spawners, but for now,
I'm just keeping the Spawner
level as the prefab.
Okay, I think everything else should
be prefabbed and up-to-date, great.
Now, what do we need to do?
Well, we need to lose,
we need a lose condition.
We need to give ourselves an area
where the attackers can go into, and
give us some sort of hurt our base,
so to speak,
cuz this is our base down this way,
our hypothetical base.
And we need a way to display if we
want to have health on the screen, or
base points, or hit points,
we need to have that on the screen.
You could have it that when one
enemy gets the end, game over, bump,
that's the easy way to do it.
So, throughout this video if
you wanna take the easy way,
no problem cuz I'm gonna give
this to you as a challenge.
You can do that or, you can do it
a little bit more sophisticated way,
were you got three or
five or ten points and
then when attackers come in if the reach
the end, then it decreases a point.
So that's why I'm gonna do it in this
video, and I'm gonna start off by giving
you a challenge, this is a good meaty,
chunky, challenge.
So if you've been finding
the content easy so far, or
if you think you've been
paying really good attention.
This is going to build upon stuff that
we've been doing in this section and
in previous sections so.
We need to display our health
points on screen for the player, so
remember to use your two string method.
We need to set up so
when an attacker reaches our base into
the collider they inflict damage so
we need an on trigger enter 2D.
We need to have a mechanism so that we're
capturing our health, or our hit points,
or our base points,
whatever you wanna call it,
and when it's 0, that we load
the You Lose screen so that comes up.
For extra bonus points, I'm not gonna
do this, but for extra bonus points,
you could put a little bit of
a delay in so it's not immediate.
But you get a little bit of time to
play your wah-wah sound effects, but
I won't do that in this video just yet.
And here's a hint, and this is what
I'll be going through with you just now,
the hint is to use our
StarDisplay as inspiration.
And if you do wanna take this on as
a challenge but you'd like a hint,
let me just show you what I mean by that.
If you're ready, jump in and
take on this challenge now, otherwise,
let me show you what I mean.
When we open up StarDisplay, we can see
that we need to have this notion of
Stars or, in our new script
I'll have a notion of health or
hit points,
not sure what I'll call it yet.
We need to be able to display the text,
we need a mechanism for
saying something along this wind,
something bumps into us.
A public method that something can
call that says decrease our health or
our point by a certain amount,
for me I'm just gonna make it 1.
So that's kinda the general framework and
then we need some sort
of collision mechanism.
So, this should give you most of what
you need in terms of inspiration.
So there's the challenge,
jump in and take that on now.
Okay, back over into Unity,
I'm gonna create myself a new script.
And we'll call this Create C# Script,
we'll call this my health, or
my score, what should we call it?
We'll call it points maybe,
lives- we'll call it lives, okay,
that's a good one, lives.
I just made that up on the spot, open up
lives, well done Rick you made up a name,
[LAUGH] three cheers for Rick for
being able to make up a name live.
And then we had to double click on it,
okay, so what do we need from StarDisplay?
We're using star yes,
using update no, okay good to know,
we need a couple of
variables from the star.
This is how a lot of programming's done,
you're like I've already
figured out this problem.
Let me go and see what I figured out and
then take inspiration from that, and
eventually there's little things you've
figured out that you don't need to go and
have a look at cuz you just
know it from that point on.
So let us create a serialized
field at the top here.
Okay, serialized field,
and this will be what?
We'll jump back to StarDisplay to have
a look, this is gonna be integer.
Yes we only need whole numbers integer and
we'll call this lives with
a little l not a big l.
Lives =, and we'll start this off
at we'll give ourselves five lives.
Great, now what do we see in StarDisplay?
Well, we see that we need to
connect to our text, okay?
So we'll create Text, and that's gonna
give us an issue because we haven't
told that we're using the namespace,
so using UnityEngine, UnityEngine.UI.
Okay, so text now text is happy,
what will we call this?
Well we'll call it livesText, and
then semicolon is that what we did here?
Yep, startText;, livesText;, startText;,
see how easy this is, see how easy it is
to copy your own code after you've
been clever and figured it out, okay.
And then we've got our starMethod
where we need to display the text and
update display, so let's just copy that.
Copy, pop it over into here,
into start, there we go, void Start.
Instead of starText it will be livesText,
and
again we're getting the component of text,
let me update display.
We haven't created updateDisplay,
what is updateDisplay over here?
Well, updateDisplay is basically our
integer being converted into a string,
so we'll copy this again.
Copy, jump back over into lives.cs and
Past our updateDisplay.
Instead of starText it's gonna be
livesText.text = lives.toString.
Okay, make sure when you're copying you
understand it, don't just copy blindly.
But we've been through this
before in our previous code so,
we should understand it reasonably well,
particularly when we've got this reminder.
I'm gonna save here so
I don't lose anything, okay,
now what are we looking for?
We're looking for a way to decrease,
so I'm gonna copy this as well.
Just going through this
process a different way,
cuz this is content we've been
through a couple of times now.
So I'm not explaining it in minute detail,
but we need a public method here.
Instead of calling SpendStars,
we'll call it TakeLife,
TakeLife, very dramatic, isn't it?
And, I think I'm just gonna have it as
one, throughout my entire game forever,
when one thing reaches the end,
you take one life.
But in your game,
you might wanna have big enemies take
more points than smaller enemies.
In which case you would leave in this
Mechanism of passing in a parameter.
I'm gonna take that out for now,
all I wanna know is that a life was taken.
And then I don't need this if, because we
don't need to check if we've got enough
lives, we know what our lives is.
And so, therefore, lives -= what,
what will we put in here?
We'll put in 1, now we could get
a little bit more sophisticated,
this is a magic number usually 0s and
1s are okay.
But because this is a value that we've
decided to give it, I'll actually
serialize this so that we can give
ourselves that flexibility if we need it.
So we'll say,
what's this damage or impact?
Yeah we'll call it damage,
just nice and simple, so
lives -= damage up the top we need to
give ourselves a serialized field.
Be an integer called damage, and
we'll initialize that at 1, and
I'm guessing that I won't change that in
my game, I'm just gonna leave it as 1.
And then we update display,
we've got an issue down the bottom here
because we didn't finish something off.
Let's have a look,
that's okay, that's okay.
This one is out of place, so one too many
of my squiggly brackets here curly braces,
there we go, save that up.
Now we've got our mechanism of
reducing our lives, storing our lives,
and displaying our lives.
Back over into Unity, let's jump into
our Canvas, Canvas, open you up, Canvas.
Find starText,
I'm gonna duplicate starText, so
this is more of a duplication approach,
often I do everything from scratch.
And you're probably like why
don't we just copy stuff?
So this time I'm gonna copy stuff,
call this LivesText,
we'll remove the starDisplay script.
Right click, Remove Component,
instead we want to add what?
We wanna add Lives, and you can see I've
created a bit of an inconsistency here.
It should probably be LivesDisplay,
not just starDisplay, to keep consistent.
So it's a little bit pedantic,
but I am gonna change that now.
So I'm going to change Lives, so
I'm gonna remove that component.
I will change this, rename it, right-click
> Rename from Lives to LivesDisplay,
just so it's really consistent
with what we've got there already.
LivesDisplay, need to open that up,
double-click, open,
scroll up to the top, instead of Lives,
it should read LivesDisplay.
Okay, so that's just a reminder,
I know you know that already,
but just a reminder, how to rename things.
I like to delete from where it was so
I don't get any conflict and
then rename it on my script and
then also rename the class,
cuz this is where defining
what the class is.
So back over on the live script,
now we'll add LivesDisplay, excellent.
Lives 5, damage 1, okay, that's good,
now that we have our lives text,
let's drag it somewhere
else on the screen.
I think up in the top left cuz that's
kind of nearish where our base is,
that says it's related to the base.
Let us click on text, change the color,
I'm gonna change mine to green,
there we go, nice green, goodo,
keep it as the same font I think.
And I'm just going to start it off at 99,
just to see how that fits cuz my health
I don't intend it to be massive,
I'll move it a little bit to
the left as well, there we go.
Now let's go back to our StarText and
we'll get inspiration from here as
well to see what we need to do next.
See starDisplay, it's a script on there,
what else is happening in starDisplay?
And if we scroll down we see we've created
this mechanism to decrease the amount of
stars, okay, so that's all cool.
We need to do the same thing to decrease
our number of points, to do that,
I'm gonna create myself
a new thingamajiggy.
So right-click > Create Empty,
and we'll call this,
Lives, no, HitHealth Damage,
Damage Collider, yeah.
Damage Collider, so Damage Collider, okay,
reset the transform so
I know exactly where it is.
I will add a component which
will be a Box Collider 2D, and
expand out our Box Collider.
Move my entire game object to the left and
up a little bit,
when do I want it to impact?
Probably after they've gone
a little bit off screen,
so the dramatic off screen effect,
that if my game is being played on a
screen where the offscreen is just there.
There's gonna be a little bit of a delay,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,
and then boom over there.
If it's being played on a display
where the edge is there,
then it'll be when they're off the screen,
so move it over to the edge here.
That looks pretty good, click on the Edit
collider for our collision, click Off,
which is what I often do, Edit collider.
Grab the little squary thing, drag up
to the top, drag down to the bottom,
drag a little bit to the left just so
it's nice and visible.
Great, so we've got our Damage Collider,
do I think that any of my attackers
are gonna throw projectiles that
might go into the Damage Collider?
No, I don't, so for
now I'm not gonna get there and
specify who can bump into it, I'm just
gonna say anything bumped into it.
Cuz if it's only the attackers
that are gonna reach here,
then we can say only attackers
are gonna bump into it.
So no need to worry about that, okay,
now we will add ourselves a script.
So right click, Create> C# Script and
we'll call this DamageCollider,
damage collision,
DamageCollider we'll call it.
Click on the DamageCollider game object,
drag over the DamageCollider
script excellent.
Let's open up DamageCollider, now,
what do we need to do in here?
So if you haven't been following
along with the challenge,
here's a good chance for
you to do this part as a challenge,
is create yourself the on
trigger enter 2D method.
So here's a little challenge for
you now, you should be able to do that.
Okay I'm gonna do this now so,
void OnTriggerInter2D, and
it's passing in collision collision,
we don't need anything in here,
we don't need to know what bumped into it.
So we could just leave that, and
say well it's It's asking for something,
we get the something.
We're just not using the something, but
I'll just remove that, just to acknowledge
within our code when we're looking through
later on that we're not trying to think
what am I doing with that Collider?
We'll just remove it, cuz we don't need to
know anything about who bumped into us.
But we're gonna say, now what we
need to do, well we need to search
through our seen and look for LivesDisplay
and call our take life method.
So how do we look through?
We say, FindObjectOfType,
what's the object we're looking for?
It's LivesDisplay,
there should only be one so
we're not looking for FindObjectOfType,
we're just looking for
any old LivesDisplay and
we are calling TakeLife();.
Okay, so, if we save that,
that should decrease our lives so,
let's click on play.
I'm gonna move out into scene view just so
I can see the moment of impact.
It's currently on 5, that's good,
and then blink, it goes to 4,
fantastic, yay for us, okay.
Next step, now that we've done that,
we're taking lives,
who is owning how many
lives we currently have?
Well, that is the LivesDisplay, and
so once we've taken life lives is minus
damage what happens when it gets to 0?
We'll we then take life,
let's create ourselves a little
if statement here, if what?
If lives is not just equal to 0 but what?
Less than or equal to 0,
then what do we wanna do?
Well, we want to load our game over
screen, so let's clean up my space here.
Load our game over screen so
we will look for FindObjectOfType.
What's the object we are looking for?
Let's go back into our script and
just give ourselves a little bit of
inspiration, what would I be looking for
here?
Cuz sometimes it's been a while since
we've touched these other scripts,
I'm like, a-ha, levelLoad, that looks
like the sort of thing we would do.
So let's go open up levelLoad,
what have we got in here so far?
We've got just the start,
we've got loadNextScene,
we've got Another LoadNextScene,
LoadScene, okay.
So we're looking specifically to create a
LoadTheGameOverScreen, and we've done this
before, so this is pretty straightforward,
just remove my update in here.
Create ourselves a public void Load,
I don't wanna call
it Game Over cuz you might say, well,
I wanna continue with this level.
So Load, YouLose,
you lose screen we could say.
But YouLose and then it's going to
be SceneManager.LoadScene.
And then, in our parentheses, I am gonna
do it this way cuz I know I'm only ever
gonna call it Lose Screen nothing else.
Call it Lose Screen like that,
we need to go create that in a moment.
Okay, so we've got our lose screen that
we wanna load in there back over into
damageCollide at notice, right?
We better save that back over into
livesDisplay find object of type,
which it's not happy about that.
I've left halfway in my process here,
but we wanna be looking for
level not looking for
love there's a Freudian slip, LevelLoad.
If you pause the video and see,
I was halfway through typing love,
poor Rick, LevelLoad.YouLose();.
Okay, we'll save that up,
it should be pretty good,
I'm gonna change my
livesText down to the lives.
So by clicking on lives text, I'm going
to change our number of lives down to 1.
And then for my Lizard, I'm gonna
move it all the way over to the left,
just so it triggers it very quickly,
and I will select my Damage Collider.
Click on Scene, bonk, okay, and
we're getting an error there, which
I believe is saying, you haven't created a
lose screen yet, Rick, what are you doing?
So let's go and we'll clear our error,
this is looking pretty good so far.
And last thing I think we need to do is
go find our Scenes, there's our Scenes.
Now, we have our startScreen,
I'm gonna duplicate my startScreen,
just make sure I've saved in my Level 1.
Change StartScreen to be called
Lose Screen, and then open up LoseScreen.
Canvas, okay, and I change my
image just to put a tint on it so
I know that it's a different one.
Yellow, Yeah,
it was all yellow [LAUGH] well done.
Okay, so you might wanna go and
put a different image in there so
it's a little bit more interesting,
back to my Level 1.
Actually, you know what we need to do?
Build a setting, so file,
build settings, and
then find my blue spring and
drag that on up and
drag my Level 1 in there as well.
We don't have a Level 1 in there, crazy,
okay, make sure we order it so that start,
and then level one, and
then loseScreen looks pretty good.
Close that up, open back up Level 1,
click on Canvas so
it zooms in a little bit, click on Play.
Let's see what happens here when we have
a creature bump into the end of our game.
And then we're getting this last error
which I'm guessing is because we
don't have our level loader
anywhere in this scene.
So let's see if we can figure that out,
click on LevelLoad,
right click find References In Scene.
I don't see any references in there,
so let's create a mechanism,
where should we put that?
Where should we put our level loader
Core Game Area might be a place to do it,
Spawners, no, Trophy, Canvas.
I don't wanna create too many
more specialized game objects,
I'm gonna put it on Core Game Area,
we'll add our Level Load.
So I'm pretty sure every of our level
is gonna have this Core Game Area.
So let's click Save, click on Play,
see if it's happy now that we've
got everything that we need, so
wait until it bumps into it.
Boink, and then we load onto the
LoseScreen, and cuz I am not on game view,
okay, there we go.
Click Start Game, nothing happens cuz
we haven't hooked that up yet, but
that's all cool,
we've created most of the functionality.
We'll do a little bit of tidying up of our
game flow and our lose and our restart and
stuff later on, but for now,
I just wanted to get the mechanism
where you can actually lose.
To test it out fully, we would be our
numbers back to 5, we'd have the actual
spawn attackers come through, rather than
just the one guy I dropped in there.
But I'm pretty confident this is all
working as it's expected to do so,
great work, well done.
We now have a way to lose our game and
I'll see you on the next video.